Our project from my perspective is a convenience solution for consumers and support representatives of Trition. Through my place of work, I and my group members have come across a problem that Trition Datacenter has. The current way of handling customer needs is by telephone which puts unnecessary strain on both the caller and the support representative. The goal is to simplify the process and create a simple interface for the management of virtual machines. Seeing as this will be open sourced, the software will be of no cost to the users. Having this process simplified will save time and effort.

A couple of courses that have related to this project are Computer Science I & II (CS1021C/CS1022C), Software Engineering (EECE3093C) and Database Design (CS4092). CS I and II both lay the foundations for basic programming. Software Engineering provides the means to collaborate in teams effectively. Database Design introduced us to SQL databases. Things learned in CS II such as Git will be helpful when collaborating with group members on this project. And the SQL knowledge learned from our Database Design will prove most helpful when creating this interface. Software engineering introduced us to the SCRUM process.

My Co-op experience will help with this project in various ways from the web development skills I’ve obtained. This project will most likely be built with Javascript and Aurelia and NodeJs as the backend. While I haven’t used Aurelia before, I have extensive knowledge in Javascript and Angular. I have used NodeJs several times in my most recent Co-op at Seven Hills Technology. Aurelia has been complimented by one of my bosses as being an easy to pick up technology. I’ve also had extensive knowledge in SCRUM and team collaboration through SVN, TFS and Git.

I’m ecstatic to begin this project because this is the first time in an academic environment (besides Hackathons hosted at school) that I will start from scratch a project. I’ve used Github a lot for school and I wouldn’t mind using a different service to host our repository. I’ve never created user stories before and I’ve never truly been involved in the mockups for projects in the work environment. This will primarily all be new to me. I do have some rusty artistic front-end design skills that I may use to beautify our mockup interface and later the final product and I won’t be hesitant to explore ways to make this project as polished as I can. I live with both my group members so I think that this group purely from an effectiveness perspective will excel.
Only when all of our prerequisites are out of the way can we start programming the website. I’m excited to see how people will react to our work (Triton or anyone who finds and forks our code). I hope this to be successful and something that I can be proud to have linked to me. It’ll be interesting trying to combine different coding styles together into a single project. The goal is proper error handling complete with unit tests. The hardest part in my opinion will be everything up to the programming which I am excited for.
